ToricVarieties: Chow ring (#1449)
oscar-system/Oscar.jl: docs/src/ToricVarieties/AlgebraicCycles.md

irreducible subvarieties with coefficients being rational numbers. We
support this more general ring and therefore also allow for left
multiplication with scalars of type `fmpq`.

### Intersection product

The intersection product of algebraic cycles is implemented via `*`.
This makes sense, since algebraic cycles on toric varieties are
elements of the Chow ring, which in turn is (a certain) quotient of
the Cox ring. Hence, internally, an algebraic cycle can be thought
of as a polynomial in this ring and the intersection product
corresponds to the product of two (equivalence classes of) polynomials.

An algebraic cycle can be intersected `n`- with itself via `^n`,
where `n` can be an integer of of type `fmpz`.

A closed subvarieties defines in a natural way a rational equivalence
class (cf. section on special constructors above). This allows to
compute intersection products among closed subvarieties and rational
equivalence classes in the Chow ring.

## Attributes

### Defining attributes

```@docs
toric_variety(ac::RationalEquivalenceClass)
polynomial(ac::RationalEquivalenceClass)
polynomial(ring::MPolyQuo, ac::RationalEquivalenceClass)
```

> ### Representant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Representatives
```

In order to see a geometric interpretation of rational equivalence
classes of algebraic cycles most efficiently, it is best to replace
self-intersections by transverse complete intersections. Indeed,
within the regime of simplicial, complete toric varieties this is
always possible. However, this involves a choice. Consequently,
the following methods will pick a special choice and return

> values for that particular choice of representant of the rational

Reviewer: ```suggestion
values for that particular choice of representative of the rational
```

equivalence class in question.

```@docs

> representant(ac::RationalEquivalenceClass)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
representative(ac::RationalEquivalenceClass)
```

```

> It can be rather convenient, to investigate such a representant in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be rather convenient to investigate such a representative in
```

```

# The Chow ring and algebraic Cycles

> Algebraic cycles are elements of the Chow ring.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps you could define what a Chow ring is, or at least sketch it, or give a ref to a source that uses convention that match what you are doing here?

I also noticed that we already have some code dealing with Chow rings, from the Matroids code?. I am totally out of my depth here, but I wonder if these various definition fit together? Perhaps the responsible people could coordinate? CC @bschroter @LukasKuehne 

Some places referencing them include:
- `docs/src/Combinatorics/matroids.md`
- `src/Combinatorics/Matroids/ChowRings.jl`
-

Author: Similar to the above. I have added more details. (Aside, this ring is up to isomorphism unique for a toric variety. This is similar in spirit to the `coordinate_ring` of a variety.)

On first glance, I found it surprising to see this for `Matroids` and `Combinatorics.` Then again, I could imagine (not 100% sure though) that one could "strip" the toric variety and define the (or a?) Chow ring just based on combinatorics. This would be similar in spirit to the Stanley-Reisner ideal... But I must say that I have not yet checked in more detail. I would be happy to hear more from the responsible people.

Reviewer 3: @HereAround you are right. One doesn't need a toric variety to define the Chow Ring. The implementation for matroids goes back to the construction of Feichtner and Yuzvinsky and is a key element in all of June Huh's results (for which we received the fields medal).

Author: I see. Good to know.

Similar as @fingolfin I wonder then if it would make sense to "marry" the approaches.

To get this started (sorry - I am pretty sure your docu tells but I have not yet checked due to a conference): What information (of the toric variety) do you need to construct the Chow ring?

Right now I take the quotient of the Cox ring by the sum of the Stanley- Reisner and the irrelevant ideal.

Reviewer 3: Probably the best is to first keep it separate and then meet to discuss if/and how one could merge those into one.

Author: Ok. I opened an issue (https://github.com/oscar-system/Oscar.jl/issues/1475) so that we do not forget this.

We provide methods to work with such cycles.

## Constructors

### Generic constructors

```@docs
AlgebraicCycle(d::ToricDivisor)
AlgebraicCycle(c::ToricDivisorClass)
AlgebraicCycle(l::ToricLineBundle)
AlgebraicCycle(cc::CohomologyClass)
```

### Addition, subtraction and scalar multiplication

> Addition of algebraic cycles `ac1` and `ac2` is implemented by
> `ac1+ac2`. Similarly, we can subtract the cycles by `ac1-ac2`.
> Scalar multiplication with `c` (this could be an integer,
> fmpz or even fmpq number) is supported by `c*ac1`.

Reviewer 2: This is just me and my style, so feel free to ignore me here; but I would move away from fake names for objects ("what is c???") and write something more along these lines (also below). Again, feel free to ignore or do something completely different; at some point we should go over everything and find a common style, but for now we can experiment...

```suggestion
Algebraic cycles can be added and subtracted via the usual `+` and `-`
operators. Moreover, multiplication by scalars from the left is supported
for scalars which are integers or of type `fmpz` or `fmpq`.
```
I've written here "from the left" based on your example snippet, of course adjust this if right scalar multiplication is also supported.

Author: That is good. Just need to adjust it for the entire documentation of the toric varieties (likely a lot). Let me look into this...

### Intersection product

The intersection product of two algebraic cycles `ac1` and `ac2`
is computed by `ac1*ac2`. This makes sense, since algebraic
cycles on toric varieties are elements of the Chow ring, which
in turn is (a certain) quotient of the Cox ring. Hence, internally,
an algebraic cycle can be simply thought of as a polynomial in this
ring and the intersection product corresponds to the product of two
(equivalence classes of) polynomials.

We support `ac1^n`, which corresponds to computing the intersection
product of `ac1` with itself `n`-times.

## Properties

> To check if an algebraic cycle `ac` is trivial, one can invoke
> `is_trivial(ac)`. Similarly, to find out if `ac` is irreducible,
> one can invoke `is_irreducible`.
> 
> Equality of algebraic cycles `ac1` and `ac2` is
> implemented by `ac1 == ac2`.

Reviewer 2: Similar to my remark above:
```suggestion
One can check if an algebraic cycle is trivial or irreducible
via `is_trivial` respectively `is_irreducible`.

Equality of algebraic cycles can be tested via `==`.
```
You may also want to turn the reference to `is_trivial` and `is_irreducible` into `@ref` references, though it doesn't really add much here.

However, what *would* be useful if we could somehow convince Documenter to add these places to the index; i.e. find a way so that searching the manual for `is_trivial` also brings up this place. I don't know if Documenter.jl supports that; if it doesn't, we should perhaps file a feature request (or more likely, upvote any existing feature request)... Perhaps @thofma knows?

Author: Also a good change of wording. Again, needed for all of the toric varieties.

I suggest to address the `@ref` in a separate PR/issue.

Author: Cf. https://github.com/oscar-system/Oscar.jl/issues/1471
